Hello everyone and welcome to the next
video in the SQL Appendix series.
So in this lecture we're gonna be going
over SQL Select, Distinct, Where and
in the And & Or operators in SQL.
So we'll go ahead and start with
explaining the SQL Select Statement.
And then we'll go over, just like
within the last video, the imports and
we'll make a little function
to do SQL queries with pandas.
So first you're starting off
with the syntax for SQL Select.
So the select statement is used to select
data from a database and that result is
then stored in a result table and
that's sometimes called the result set.
So the syntax for
SQL Select, looks like this.
You say, usually in all caps,
select, then the name of the column.
In this case I just said column_name, and
then you say what table you want it from.
And FROM is a command in all caps.
Some SQL languages, or versions of SQL,
you don't need to do all caps, but
mostly, it's very common to show
all caps for your commands.
If you wanna select from multiple columns,
you can just say select
column name comma and the second
column name and then from your table.
If you wanna select everything in the
table, you can just say select either star
or asterisk, whatever you wanna call
this symbol, from and the table.
So to see how select and
how multiple other queries work,
we'll connect to the database and
make a function that automatically takes
in our query and returns a DataFrame.
So just like we went over the last video,
I'm gonna import sqlite3,
I'm gonna import pandas pd, and
then I'm gonna set my object con
equal to sqlite3.connect, and
then I'm gonna connect to my database.
If your database is in the same
folder as your IPython Notebook,
you can just write the database name.db,
or you can write the full path in
your computer to connect it to.
Now we are also gonna set a function as
our SQL to pandas, so what I mean by that
is I made a little function
here Called sql_to_df and
it takes in a sql_query, and
then it sets that query using
pd.read_sql and
I'll take in that query and
also use that connection we made
to set that as a dataframe.
So this is basically what
we did in the last video,
except now I'm putting it within a
function so I can just call the function,
and then it's gonna return
the resulting dataframe.
So it just uses pandas to pass the SQL
query, using the connection from sqlite3.
So let's go ahead and
see an example of how we can do
a SQL query in Python using Pandas.
So I can select multiple columns.
And for this Multiple columns example.
I make an object called query,
and then I pass my SQL syntax, so
I'm gonna say select this case.
I'm gonna be going through this
customer table right here and
looking at the first name and
the last name.
So these columns are called
first underscore name, and
then the other column is
called last underscore name.
So I'm gonna select
the first name comma and
the last name from that customer table.
And then I have semicolon
here to end that SQL query.
Now if you notice this is in red and
that's because it's a comment block.
So to make a comment block, you can
either use quotations or apostrophes And
write three of them in a row and
end with three of them in row,
anything between those
will just be a comment.
So now that I have set my object as
that basically comment statement.
I can pass that query
using our function and
in this case I just have .head,
to see the first rows.
And then the resulting data frame or
first name and
the last name columns
are already indexed for us.
If I want to select everything,
I can do the same thing just by saying,
select then asterisk
from that customer table.
Again, it's a comment block and
it has a semi-colon.
Then, to grab it, just gonna use that
query, pass it through my function,
and in this case again, I'm just asking
for if .head() the first five rows.
And here we can see everything
from that entire customer table.
So basically this data frame that we
made equals that customer table.s So
we can see the column names, customer ID,
store ID, first name, last name,
email, and
if you want to see an overview of this,
you could come back to that diagram and
see the customers and their columns here.
Great, so now let's hop in to the syntax
for the SQL DISTINCT Statement.
In a table a column may
contain duplicate values.
For instance, you could have duplicate
names or duplicate countries, duplicate
cities, and sometimes you'll only want
to list the distinct or unique values.
So this might sound familiar from pandas,
cuz remember pandas has the unique method
on it, for a dataframe, or a series.
And in this case in SQL, you use
the word distinct as a keyword, and
it can be used to return only distinct or
unique values.
So the syntax for
this would look like select Distinct and
then you pass your column
name from your table.
So, to show you what I mean by that,
I've made a query here.
I'm selecting or select distinct, and
then in parentheses from distinct.
I'm passing country_id.
And then I'm doing this
from the city table.
Then, I pass that query
through my data frame and
I get the first five Country IDs,
and that's all there is to it.
So you can go home and mess around
with doing this kind of function or
query in other databases or other tables.
So you might wanna say, go ahead and
get all the unique names for
my customer tables or
get all the unique films in my inventory,
etcetera, etcetera, and that's it.
So the distinct allows you to grab unique
values from your column or your table.
So now the syntax for
the SQL WHERE statement.
The WHERE clause is used to filter
records, so the WHERE clause is used to
extract only the records that fulfill
the specific parameter you provide.
So the syntax for this goes SELECT.
Your column name from your table
name where your column name and
then some sort of math operator and
your desired value.
So, for instance, I can select all,
let's try selecting all customer
information from the first store,
so with store_id 1.
So my query is select everything, so
the star, from the customer table where,
and I have store_id,
my column name, equal to one.
And then I run that through my function,
that query, and grabbed
all the information from the customer
table where the store_id was equal to one.
So there's a variety of these logical or
arithmetic operators you can use for
a SQL request.
I have a table of them here.
And you can check that
out later if you want.
So the SQL requires single quotes around
text values, while numeric fields are not
enclosed in quotes, so for example, a text
value for the above where statement.
If you wanted to select all the customer
info from Mary you can say select star,
from customer table,
where column name, first name equals,
and in this case, since it's text,
I have single quotes around the Mary.
And there you go,
we've seen all the information for Mary.
Now let's go ahead and see the syntax for
the and operator and sequel.
So the and operator is used to filter
records based on more than one condition.
So the and operator displays
a record if both the first and
the second condition are true.
Hopefully this should seem pretty
familiar just from knowing Python.
So in this case I'm gonna select all
the films from 2006 and that are rated R.
So my query is select
star everything from film
where release year equals 2006 and
the rating is equal to R.
Again, notice here that the letter
R only has single quotes around it
because it's text.
The number 2006 doesn't
need the single quotes.
And I passed a query, and here we can
see all the release years of 2006.
And I scroll over,
I'll see the ratings are all here.
So now we have a data frame of all
the films from 2006 that are rated R.
Moving on, the syntax for OR.
The OR operator displays a record
of either the first condition or
the second condition as true.
So let's say I want to
select all films from
the film database ,or the film table
excuse me, that are rated R or PG.
So I can pass the query select star,
everything from film, my table,
where rating is PG or equals PG or
where the rating equals R minus single
quotes here, have that as a block comment,
pass that through my function and
now I have my data frame with
all the PG and R rated movies.
If we scroll over here, we can see that
we only see PG and R on the ratings.
Great.
So that's it for now.
So we went over how to do SQL SELECT,
SQL DISTINCT, SQL WHERE, SQL AND and OR.
Just very basic examples.
And you can use those to
access your data base and
set your query as a data frame in pandas.
Great.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next video.